<description> This course introduces students to the profession of health and human services beginning with the historical evolution of the field and continuing up to modern day . A broad - based view of the purpose , preparation , and theoretical orientation of the profession is stressed including the many types and career settings of human service professions , scope of work , and duties and functions . Basic skills required by health and human service workers are reviewed , in addition to the roles of human service workers in both clinical and non - clinical settings . An introductory examination of orientations , ethics , and skills related to health and human service delivery in diverse practice settings is included . </description>
 <description> This course emphasizes theories and practice of professional communication skills within the context of health and human services . Students will examine classical approaches and new theories and research in interpersonal , and group communication . Active listening , empathy interviewing , nonverbal communication , and presentation skills are stressed . The impact of family , culture , and gender on communication is integrated through communication exercises and class projects . In this class , students will also have an opportunity to examine the practical implications of these concepts in developing their own communication skills through application of selected communication techniques and strategies . </description>
 <description> This course examines the role and function of helping , and helping processes as applied within the context of the health and human service profession . Helper characteristics are considered , relative to optimizing service delivery in diverse health and human service settings serving a multitude of constituents / client groups . Helping strategies and interventions , with attention to principles , methodology , practitioner skills and knowledge are overviewed . Interpretive strategies such as case study analysis , and vignette analysis are used to simulate health and human service settings . </description>
 <description> This course prepares students to understand cultural systems , and the nature of cultural identity defined by gender , ethnicity , race , national origin , sexual orientation , income , physical and mental ability , age , and religion . Emphasis is placed on defining and developing skills for the culturally competent delivery of health and human services . </description>
 <description> Health and human service delivery practices are discussed using contemporary issues , trends , legal aspects , and ethics in an integrated approach . Health laws , ethics , and professional conduct standards including boundary- setting and confidentiality requirements are covered . Professional roles , functions , and legal / ethical responsibilities of health and human service professionals are overviewed using standards published by selected professional organizations . </description>
 <description> This course is a survey course encompassing the application of research methodology . It prepares students to critically evaluate published research . The nature and history of the scientific method , research tools , data collection and analysis will be reviewed . Although key statistical concepts are covered , the focus of the course is helping students gain a conceptual understanding of the components of sound research , and to understand the steps and procedures involved in ethical research of the content area . </description>
 <description> In this final course , students will reflect upon and synthesize the major insights gained in their study of Health and Human Services . A substantive paper is developed which requires students to critically analyze their experiences and integrate knowledge gained throughout their program . The focus is on a strategic health and human services topic that is directly related to access and delivery of services to a selected client group . </description> <prerequisite> Prerequisite : Successful completion of the General Education Capstone course . </prerequisite>
