<description> This course introduces students to the interdisciplinary field of social sciences and some of the disciplines that comprise this field , including anthropology , sociology , political science and history . These subject areas figure prominently in the Social Science major . In this course , students will learn important social science concepts and theoretical approaches , along with the research methods that social scientists use to study human behavior . Throughout the course and through a summative assignment , students will examine how social factors shape social behavior , and some of the consequences of current social problems . </description>
 <description> This course is an examination of global socioeconomic development in the context of globalization . Topics include population growth , natural resources , sustainable growth , migration , diplomacy , and the global consequences of inequality , poverty , and war . These topics are examined through the lens of social expectations , gender ideals , and economic justice . </description>
 <description> An interdisciplinary study of peacemaking and activism with a focus on how they impact conflict resolution . Students examine thinking and behavior in response to social conflict such as aggression , threats , prejudice , avoidance , withdrawal , conformity , and obedience . Students study various strategies of peacemaking , activism , and negotiation and then apply these methods to in class activities . </description>
 <description> This course analyzes the relationship between health and the environment and takes into account how health is influenced by natural and manmade environmental factors . Students will consider the history of the relationship between health and the global environment , addressing how groups in the past understood the connection and the actions they took to improve both . The course will also address contemporary theories that highlight how race , gender , and class influence the relationship between health and the environment . By concentrating on these factors , students will consider the negative and positive influences of the environment on human health as well as possible future concerns and issues that might emerge . </description>
 <description> The eSociety course focuses on the relationship between society , science , and technology and the social dynamics of knowledge production from a social science perspective . The course provides students with an understanding of how social values affect scientific research and technological innovation as well as the transformative impacts of technologies on society . Through discussions of key concepts and case studies , students will explore how particular scientific facts or technologies become accepted , how controversies are settled , and how science and scientists retain credibility and authority . Students will also engage with the social , ethical , and political consequences of technological developments . </description> <prerequisite> Prerequisite : SSC 101 . </prerequisite>
